SENECA
History
The Seneca were one of the first Native American peoples that European colonists encounter. They were likely responsible for teaching Dutch, French, and English colonists how to grow crops in America and how to survive the winters. They were founding members of the Iroquios Confederacy and a powerful ally in both war and peace. Today, the Seneca are a thriving, if small, nation of people within the United States who look towards a bright future.

Geography and Climate
While pre-columbian Seneca holdings may have been much larger, at the time of the American Revolution, the Seneca lived in a sizeable area south of Lake Ontario within what is now the State of New York. The land is a combination of northern lowlands bordering Lake Ontario, with a fertile plateau region to the south punctuated by long, thin lakes. This area is valued for its natural beauty and expansive farming potential.

Pre-columnbian Influence
Archaeologists have found evidence that in the time before the birth of the United States, the Seneca engaged in wars of conquest in what is now the Eastern United States. Evidence of Seneca weapons and agricultural practices can be found in areas as far west as the Mississippi River, and as far south as northern Florida.

The Seneca were also founding members of the Iroquois Confederacy in approximately 1570; a government with a constitution that was remarkably advanced and influenced the government structure of the United States.

A Warrior People
The Senece were positioned by the Iroquois Confederacy as the "Keepers of the Western Door". It was their responsibility to provide a diplomatic and martial defense for the rest of the Confederacy. Their warriors were feared for their quick strikes, and kept an ongoing animosity with some of the neighboring peoples, such as the Huron and the Neutrals. During the time of the Colonists, the Seneca continued to flex their military might, defeating enemy Native American peoples and forcing them to resettle in areas to increase the Seneca influence.

War with Colonists
The Seneca were active partners in the fur trade, and they angered the French because of their interferance with the Huron, who were the French allies. The Seneca made trading alliegences with the Dutch and the English in order to fight off the French. The Seneca then successfully entertained a long-standing period of on-again, off-again combat against the French, which contributed to and was ultimately ended by the succession of French Canada to the British, Seneca allies.

American Revolution
During the American Revolution, both the British and Americans courted the Seneca as their allies, but the Seneca vowed to remain neutral. However, the American people's obvious disdain for the Seneca and the lavish promises of the British eventually convinced the Seneca to join the war on the side of the British. The British intended to use the Seneca to harry American supply chains, but the Seneca took the fight into colonial towns. The scale of death and destruction in the American Revolution soon sickened the Seneca, however, and the American Army General John Sullivan embarked on a campaign to exterminate the Seneca, burning their homes, plantations, and every article of food that they could get at. The Seneca were forced into a retreat, successfully slowing Sullivan in order to save whomever they could from the brutal total war doctrine that Sullivan employed.

After the War
Following the war, the Iroquois Confedracy dissolved and the Seneca sold much of their lands the Americans and accepted life on reservations. Most managed to remain in what had become New York and withstand relocations to other States. They also became allies of the Americans, fighting alongside them in other conflicts. Today, the Seneca still fight alongside the Americans -- the Seneca proudly provide the most enlisted men and women per capita of any people group in the United States.